SURGERY=>A nurse prepares to place the ether mask over Wolfgang's nose and mouth. But the patient has other ideas. Wolfgang reaches up and catches the nurse by the wrist.
SURGERY=>Bauman is flustered by Wolfgang's refusal to be sedated.
CORRIDOR=>SWAT commandos converge on the door marked "Surgery."
SURGERY=>Bauman bends over Wolfgang. He brings up the scalpel, his hand shaking ever so slightly. A drop of sweat falls from Bauman's forehead and lands on Wolfgang's lower lip. Wolfgang's tongue darts out and licks it away. Bauman and Wolfgang lock eyes. Wolfgang knows that Bauman has set him up.
GLASS. 8A ADJOINING ROOM 8A=>Wolfgang hits the floor in a shower of glass, scrambles to his feet and bursts through a door, knocking over a nurse. 8B INT. CORRIDOR 8B Terrified patients and staff flatten themselves against the walls as Wolfgang comes charging down the corridor, half- naked, surgical gown flapping behind him, pursued by a wave of SWAT commandos. 9 THRU 11 OMITTED ANGLE
ANGLE WIDENS.=>The room is pretty much bare. Bed, nightstand and a Solo-flex exercise set-up. Cutter is a man of few possessions. The walls are covered with a variety of bulls-eyes and target silhouettes -- the kind used by law enforcement. Each one is expensively framed -- Cutter's idea of art. The ALARM GOES OFF AGAIN.
13B FRAMED PHOTOGRAPH 13B=>of Cutter and a beautiful young woman in happier times. Perhaps this is "Lisa." Next to the photo is an Amtrack brochure and a ticket -- round trip -- Los Angeles to Orlando. But it's the Amtrak brochure that really catches our attention. It's illustrated with a bold drawing of a powerful locomotive. PUSH IN ON the train as we...
CRASHES!=>Bars slide open with a LOUD CLANG. CAMERA FOLLOWS a distinguished, silver-haired ATTORNEY as he enters the bowels of a prison designed in hell. He travels down a long corridor lined with cells containing the evil and the insane. They jeer, laugh, taunt and spit at the Attorney as he runs their gauntlet of abuse. At the end of the corridor, a stem-faced guard stands in front of an iron door. The Attorney, wiping spit off his expensive suit with a handkerchief, shows the indifferent guard some papers. The guard wheels open the heavy iron door. CAMERA FOLLOWS the Attorney into a small dark room. The iron DOOR CLANGS shut behind him. On the other side of a mesh screen sits Wolfgang, stripped naked, wearing handcuffs. His body is hard and muscular, a map of ugly scars. He greets his Attorney with a wolfish smile.
ANGLE=>A Sky Cuisine catering truck is parked alongside the 747. A fat man wearing orange coveralls pushes a food cart into the open cargo door of the plane. Then he goes back for the next cart. Making sure no one's watching, the fat man produces a square metal package, slips it into the bottom tray of the cart and pushes the cart into the plane. INT. 747 - LOWER GALLEY The plane's lower galley is accessible by a small elevator located mid-ship. Two flight attendants steer the food carts into their bays. MARTI SLAYTON is in her mid-twenties -- dark, very pretty, friendly and outgoing. FIONA RITCHIE is Irish, a tall, hard- bodied redhead.
WOLFGANG=>is removed from the sedan by two cops and two no-nonsense Federal Marshals, MANNING and DUNCAN. Wolfgang wears a coat draped over his shoulders to conceal the fact that his hands are cuffed and attached to a leather belt around his waist.
COACH SECTION=>Cutter find his seat near the rear of the plane. A window seat. His closest fellow passenger is a GRANDMOTHER across the aisle. MAIN CABIN - UPPER GALLEY The faint WHIRR of a MOTOR. The narrow elevator door opens and Fiona emerges, carrying a tray of complimentary champagne.
FIRST CLASS=>Vincent finds his seat and settles in paying special attention to the spiral staircase that leads to the upper deck -- and Wolfgang. Fiona serves him a glass of champagne.
COACH=>Cutter is doing fine until he hears the airtight HISS of the HATCH DOOR being sealed. The jet lurches into motion and backs away from the gate. Cutter remains calm, assuring himself that he'll be fine. At the front of the cabin, Marti speaks into a MICROPHONE .
FLIGHT DECK=>Captain, FIRST OFFICER and FLIGHT ENGINEER. Through the windscreen panels is the runway, stretching out to infinity.
UPPER DECK=>Wolfgang sits in a center row between Manning and Duncan. He closes his eyes and settles back to enjoy the take-off. EXT. RUNWAY The 747 leaves the runway and climbs into a dark and threatening sky. INT. 747 - COACH Climbing. Cabin vibrating. Cutter's eyes are clamped shut. But sensing something, he opens them. Across the aisle the Grandmother smiles at him, obviously amused by his discomfort.
COACH=>Pushing aside the curtain, Fiona leaves first class and enters coach, heading for the rear of the plane. The Indian leaves his seat and follows. So does the Student. Vincent brings up the rear, licking food off his fingers. Fiona steps behind the partition wall that separates the main cabin from the rear lavatories . There's only one person back here, a businessman who
UPPER DECK=>Duncan holds a spoonful of spinach to Wolfgang's mouth.
UPPER DECK=>Wolfgang pulls away from Duncan, the spoon still clamped between his teeth. As Duncan writhes in agony, Vincent steps up and FIRES a bullet into his chest, finishing him. Wolfgang spits out the spoon and smiles at Vincent, his teeth flecked with Duncan's blood.
COACH=>The Indian and the Student aim their guns at the now hysterical passengers.
UPPER DECK=>Vincent finds the key in Duncan's pocket and unlocks Wolfgang's handcuffs. Wolfgang tosses the cuffs away and
FIRST CLASS=>A terrified WOMAN turns to the passenger beside her --a burly, florid-faced Catholic PRIEST who, oddly, is casually sipping a cocktail and popping peanuts into his mouth.
FLIGHT DECK=>The Captain reacts to a throbbing emergency light.
FIRST CLASS=>At gunpoint, Vincent and Fiona herd first-class passengers into the coach section.
COACH=>As passengers scramble to find empty seats, Marti comes toward Fiona.
FLIGHT DECK=>Priest has altered the 747's course which gets an immediate RADIO REACTION.
FLIGHT DECK=>The bodies of the flight crew have been dumped outside the cockpit in the empty upper deck. Wolfgang and Priest are studying a map. The RADIO CRACKLES.
AFT SECTION=>The Student steps around the partition and discovers both LAVATORY DOORS open, swinging open and shut, going THUMP THUMP THUMP. The Student investigates the first compartment. Empty. He secures the door and peers into the second compartment. Cutter, who has wedged himself overhead, drops down on the Student like a ton of bricks. Cutter slams the Student's face into the mirror. The GLASS SHATTERS.
MAIN CABIN=>Vincent, growing impatient, calls out.
FIRST CLASS=>As Cutter and the Student enter, Vincent shouts up the stairway to the flight deck.
UPPER GALLEY=>Cutter and Marti disentangle themselves.
MARTI=>What's your plan?
FIRST CLASS=>Cutter's gun sails out of the upper galley and lands in the aisle. Wolfgang nods at the Indian and together, they rush the upper galley.
UPPER GALLEY=>It's empty! Wolfgang and the Indian look at each other in confusion. Then, they hear the ELEVATOR MOTOR. Wolfgang grabs the elevator door but it refuses to open.
LOWER GALLEY=>The elevator door opens to reveal Cutter and Marti, face to face, wedged against each other like sardines.
UPPER GALLEY=>The Indian tries to pry the elevator doors apart with his superior strength but they won't budge. Wolfgang doesn't seem particularly upset. He gives calm instructions to Fiona and Vincent.
LOWER GALLEY=>Cutter scrambles around, searching for something.
AVIONICS COMPARTMENT=>Marti grabs Cutter from behind. They struggle and he pins her against the wall.
MARTI=>So what do we do?
UPPER GALLEY=>The Indian is trying to wedge open the elevator door when a sudden drop in altitude knocks him off his feet. EXT. NIGHT SKY The 747 falls, coming AT US in excess of 500 knots. INT. 747 - MAIN CABIN
WOLFGANG=>What does that mean?
AVIONICS COMPARTMENT=>While Marti watches. Cutter severs wires with the blunt butter knife. EXT. GULF OF MEXICO - NIGHT Men working on the back of a fishing boat look up as the mammoth JETLINER THUNDERS overhead, sending them scurrying for cover or diving overboard. INT. 747 - FLIGHT DECK Priest motions for Wolfgang to take the co-pilot seat.
FERRIS WHEEL=>Revolving, brightly lit, framed against the night sky. Just as a seat containing two necking teenagers comes up over the top, the 747 plunges out of the clouds. FILLING the FRAME. It THUNDERS overhead -- almost close enough to touch. Then -- WHOOM! it's gone. And the ferris wheel shakes -and shimmies in the powerful jetwash.
MID-WAY=>People react and panic as if the sky is falling. And it is! The massive underbelly of the 747 completely obliterates the moon and stars. Over by the pony rides, a terrified mother clutches her CHILD who points at the big plane with excitement.
MAIN CABIN=>Everyone and everything is violently thrown forward.
LOWER GALLEY=>Cutter and the Indian are lifted off their feet and hurled forward. Cutter manages to get behind the Indian and use him as a buffer. The Indian hits the wall head first -- Thud! -- and knocks himself cold. EXT. RUNWAY The 747 -- bumping and SKIDDING along the tarmac. INT. 747 - LOWER GALLEY Cutter sits on the floor beside the unconscious Indian, trying to clear his head. He picks up the Indian's gun, then gestures to Marti who is out of her harness.
SLY=>Oh, absolutely.
TERMINAL AND STAGING AREA=>The meager emergency teams are overwhelmed by the sudden tidal wave of humanity. INT. SERVICE CORRIDOR Cutter locks the Two angry Cops in the janitor's closet. Then he races down the corridor, responding to the O.S. NOISE of the evacuation. He disappears up a flight of stairs. A series of THUMPING sounds comes from the Janitor's closet as the Two Cops try to break out. Suddenly, the door shatters and they come tumbling out. EXT. RUNWAY Cutter moves through a wave of humanity as passengers continue to de-plane. It's a madhouse scene so there's little chance of Cutter being discovered in the middle of it. Cutter stops. He stands very still like an island in the middle of a sea of swarming, moving people. He's got his radar out. It may be a madhouse but Cutter's trained eye picks up something out of whack -- something in the distance that sends a jolt through his body. 128A CUTTER'S POV 128A Four "passengers" have broken away from the crowd and are hurrying off in the opposite direction, crossing a grassy field in the direction of the fairgrounds. As they pass the runway lights, they are revealed as Wolfgang, Priest, Vincent and Fiona. 128B BACK TO CUTTER 128B He can't help being impressed by Wolfgang's ingenuity.
132B ANGLE 132B=>Wolfgang and his crew turn and react to the fast-approaching Harley. The moonlight reveals the rider as Cutter.
132C ANGLE 132C=>Cutter bears down on them, RETURNING FIRE. They scatter as Cutter comes over a rise -- and goes airborne. Vincent keeps PUMPING lead at him. One of his shots hits the FUEL TANK and it EXPLODES beneath Cutter. Cutter and the flaming BIKE go CRASHING down into a deep ravine. Cutter is thrown from the Harley and hurled into the darkness.
132H ANGLE 132H=>Fiona leads Cutter and Wolfgang down the midway. In the distance sits a battered yellow church bus on the edge of the parking area, belching black exhaust fumes, Cutter notices police arriving on the scene. The Cops are mingling with the crowd, obviously on the lookout. Wolfgang sees them, too.
132I OPEN-AIR STAGE 132I=>Where a pie and cake auction is underway. A folksy AUCTIONEER in a cowboy suit examines the next item, a pit displayed by its creator, a twelve-year-old Cajun girl.
132J ANGLE 132J=>Suddenly, there's a LOUD EXPLOSION overhead --a bright flash of light -- the FIREWORKS SHOW has begun. Instead of responding with delight, the crowed freaks out, thinking World War III has erupted. The midway becomes a riot and the Cops must try to contain it.
132K PARKING AREA 132K=>Wolfgang and Fiona run to the waiting church bus. Priest, in the driver's seat, pulls the lever that opens the door. Wolfgang and Fiona scramble on board.
132M CHURCH BUS 132M=>Commandos surround the bus.
LINE OF GENERATOR TRUCKS=>HUMMING and THRUMMING, providing the fair with power. Two Uniform Cops run by, searching for Cutter. 149A ANGLE UP 149A
149B MIDWAY 149B=>The Cops have manged to get the Wolfgang and Fiona skulk past a games -- ring toss, water race, crowd under control. row of contests and shooting gallery, etc. Wolfgang stops at the entrance to "The House of Mirrors.' He turns to Fiona.
MIDWAY=>Wolfgang is now some distance from the House of Mirrors. He wonders why Fiona hasn't started the diversion. But it's a moot point because he's got trouble -- Commandos are coming up the midway. Wolfgang turns and looks behind him. Cutter -- fifty feet away. Cutter stops. He and Wolfgang lock eyes. They hold it for a long moment. Faintly, we hear the HURDY GURDY MUSIC of the carousel. Wolfgang's eyes drift in its direction. Cutter's do likewise. 149E LONG SHOT - CAROUSEL 149E With its gaily spinning lights and happy children. As Wolfgang and Cutter know, children make the best hostages.
149F CAROUSEL 149F=>Round and round go the colorful carved horses and their merry young riders. The MUSIC is LOUDER here. It seems almost demented. Suddenly Wolfgang is on board -- a wolf among sheep, seeking a victim. He zeroes in on a five-year-old boy astride a bucking bronco. Wolfgang grabs the child by the back of his T-shirt, lifts him out of the saddle. In the center ring, the ride operator sees Wolfgang, the child and Wolfgang's gun. Terrified, he panics and yanks the brake -- too fast. The sudden braking is too much for the over-taxed MOTOR. It BLOWS. Gears fly apart, showering sparks. The carousel begins to spin out of control, shimmying and shaking. Children scream and cling to their horses for dear life.
149G CROWD 149G=>It watches in horror. Cutter pushes through the throng and races to the madly spinning carousel. He throws himself on board and smashes into a horse. He bounces off, crashes into another horse and is knocked around like a pinball.
ANGLE=>Wolfgang is thrown forward against a pole. He loses his grip on the boy who drops to the spinning platform and rolls toward the edge. The ground beyond is a dangerous blur. The boy is just about to roll off when Cutter dives INTO FRAME. He grabs the boy just in time and pulls him back to safely.
ANGLE=>Wolfgang hits the ground and rolls for several yards. The gun flies out of his hand. It skitters across the dirt and Wolfgang lunges after it like it was a life line. As his fingers close around the gun stock, a foot comes down, trapping hand and gun. Wolfgang looks up. The foot belongs to FBI Agent Henderson. He is flanked by Commandos whose assault rifles are pointed at Wolfgang's head.
ANGLE=>The CAROUSEL GRINDS to a smokey stop. Out steps Cutter like a modem day Pied Piper. He's carrying the boy in his arms and half a dozen other kids are clustered around him. Parents rush out of the smoke to be reunited with their kids. Henderson approaches Cutter. He's a fan.
ANGLE=>Wolfgang, Fiona and Priest are brought before Henderson. Their handcuffs are removed but guns are kept pointed at their heads. Wolfgang scans the surrounding crowd and sees Vincent wearing a paramedic uniform. Vincent smiles at him.
ANGLE=>The stairway draws closer to the 747.
TERMINAL ROOFTOP=>A sharpshooter draws a bead on the opening door. We INTERCUT his POV THROUGH the rifle scope as a figure appears in the doorway, moving into the scope's cross hairs. It's Marti. The sharpshooter hesitates. EXT. RUNWAY Wolfgang gazes across the void at Marti. He gives her a hungry, lascivious look.
SHARPSHOOTER'S POV=>The scope's crosshairs pinpoint the Indian.
HENDERSON=>Momentarily confused. The impossible has just happened and he can't comprehend it. CUTTER AND BIGGS They, too, are astounded. Cutter's eyes go to the terminal roof and he sees Vincent. Vincent swings his RIFLE in their direction and OPENS FIRE, spraying the police. Cutter, Biggs and the other cops dive for cover. EXT. RUNWAY AND 747 Wolfgang rips two smoke grenades off the body of the dead Commando and sets them off. Smoke engulfs the plane like a magician's stage trick as the Indian yanks Marti back inside. Priest and Fiona leap from the stairs and into the airliner. With a final look of satisfaction at the confusion he's wrought, Wolfgang does likewise. Smoke rolls away from the 747 like a wave, rushing up against the windows of the terminal and rising up to engulf the Tower. Vincent leaps from the Tower roof and lands with a SICKENING CRUNCH on the tarmac far below. He scrambles to his feet but he's sprained an ankle and has to hobble like a crab toward the boarding stairs. Commandos in gas masks emerge from the terminal and are quickly disoriented. CUTTER AND BIGGS Driven back by the smoke. On the walkie-talkie, the sounds of STRUGGLE and MOVEMENT inside the 747. THUMPING, CRASHING sounds. More GUNSHOTS. COMMOTION and then --the sound of the passengers SCREAMING.
VINCENT=>He's at the top of the stairs when he realizes they've closed the hatch on him. Wolfgang's face appears in the window. He gives smiles at Vincent and shrugs as if to say. "Tough shit."
MARTI=>You're repulsive.
201A WOLFGANG 201A=>He goes to the flight attendant's station in the upper galley and picks up the announcement mike.
228C SLY 228C=>An ASSISTANT brings him a phone.
