NIKOLAS=>Is there anybody here?
THE CASTLE=>Léone's sick-room. The nurse puts a chair by the bed.
THE COURTYARD=>The three shadows emerge from the shadow of the trees, steal across the moonlit courtyard and disappear into the deep shadows of the castle.
THE CASTLE=>Bernard in the corridor, outside the door of his room. He still has the lamp in his hand. He goes into his room.
THE COURTYARD=>Enter Nikolas . He finds himself under the room that Bernard has just entered. Through the lighted window he sees Bernard putting down his lamp and recognizes him as the man who visited him in his dreams. At the same moment he sees the three shadows going diagonally across the ceiling of the room; at that moment Bernard leaves the window and goes across to a bookshelf. Nikolas rushes to the main door of the castle. He rings vigorously at the door. The bell gives a feeble ring. The echo dies away, and everything is quiet again. Nikolas rings again. Now he hears behind the door an old person's shuffling steps. He tugs at the door and shouts:
THE DRAWING-ROOM=>This adjoins Bernard's room. The manservant and Nikolas try to open the door into Bernard's room, but the body of the dying man is lying just behind the door, preventing them from opening it more than a few inches. The dying man's screams fill them with horror.
BERNARD'S ROOM=>Enter Gisèle. She stops dead by the door, paralyzed by the sight of her father lying on the point of death. She looks at the chamber-maid and the old housekeeper, who are clinging to each other, while the tears run down their cheeks. Beside herself, and with eyes dilated with terror, she goes to her father and kneels by his side. He understands that she is there. His face lights up for a moment, after which he closes his eyes again for a while, as if trying to draw breath for the few words he wants to say; but he has not sufficient strength left. He uses his last ounce of strength to draw a ring from his finger. He hands the ring to Gisèle, who recognizes it. It is a
NURSE=>No, it's down there.
ON THE LANDING=>The nurse is still standing there. The death-rattle reaches her ears. She goes into Léone's room and shuts the door behind her.
BERNARD'S ROOM=>Here the silence of death prevails. The group by the door follows with bated breath the last spasms of the death-struggle. Now the murdered lord of the castle is drawing his last gasp. The old housekeeper goes up to Gisèle, who is no longer weeping but merely stares uncomprehendingly at her father's lifeless body. The old housekeeper calls to her gently. Gisèle looks at her in surprise.
THE COURTYARD=>The coachman crosses the courtyard, opens the door of the carriage entrance, and draws out a hunting carriage. He pulls it slowly and carefully, as if wanting to muffle the sound.
THE DRAWING-ROOM=>The old housekeeper has gone on ahead in order to light a lamp. Nikolas gets Gisèle to sit down. Her gaze is vacant, and the only sound that comes from her is a suppressed sobbing.
THE COURTYARD=>The coachman leads a horse from the stable.
THE DRAWING-ROOM=>Nikolas stops in front of Gisèle's chair and looks compassionately at her. She is sitting as motionless as a stone. Only her lips are trembling, as if she is praying quietly. Suddenly she senses his presence. She looks up at him imploringly and says in a voice choked with tears:
THE COURTYARD=>The coachman is hitching the horses.
THE DRAWING-ROOM=>Nikolas lights another lamp, and as he puts out the match he looks at Gisèle. She is sitting with her hands in her lap, rocking her head backwards and forwards. Her eyes are glazed. She is doing all she can to prevent herself from breaking down completely, but when the first tears trickle down her cheeks she breaks into sobs. She lifts her clenched hands to her eyes and weeps. Nikolas goes over to her. He knows that he can do absolutely nothing, however much he wants to quench her sorrow. He bends over her, as if wanting to speak the words of consolation that she needs, but before he can say anything she bursts out:
THE COURTYARD=>The coachman is putting on his cloak; he sits up and drives the carriage out.
THE DRAWING-ROOM=>Gisèle jumps up at the sound of the carriage. In her anxious and overwrought condition she endows every sound with meaning. She goes to the window, looks out and asks:
LÉONE'S ROOM=>Léone is lying in bed. The nurse is sitting in the room with her sewing things. Suddenly she raises her eyes. A number of little furrows have appeared on Léone's forehead. Her breathing becomes irregular and labored. Her face is twisted, as if she is tormented by fear and uncertainty. She opens her eyes, and her gaze is fixed and distant, as if held by someone a long way away. She looks like a medium under hypnosis. She is visibly no longer master of her own will, or she is under the influence of a power stronger than her own. In spite of her weakened condition she raises herself on her elbow and shouts very loudly:
THE DRAWING-ROOM=>Gisèle at the window with her forehead pressed against the cold pane. Nikolas is sitting reading the book.
THE PARK=>By the time they are out there, Léone is nowhere to be seen. They begin a thorough search of the park, which looks ghostly with its moonlit sandstone statues. Some of the tree trunks are painted white. They look like skeletons, swaying backwards and forwards. Spiders' webs shine like silver. From time to time a bird flies off in alarm. We begin by following the manservant, as he makes his way through bushes and undergrowth with the lantern held high over his head like a luminous hour-glass. With his free hand he holds his jacket tightly round his neck. In the distance we hear Gisèle shouting anxiously:
LÉONE'S ROOM=>The manservant has laid Léone on the bed and now goes out. The nurse settles Léone and discovers the wound in her throat; she takes a wad of cotton-wool, moistens it with a disinfectant rinse from a bottle, and dabs the liquid on the wound. Léone shudders convulsively, puts her hand on the wound and
THE DRAWING-ROOM=>Nikolas is there with the old housekeeper, who with old-world courtesy brings him a cup of strong coffee. Just as she is handing Nikolas the cup, Gisèle comes in. With a distracted expression she shuts the door mechanically and goes and sits down. The old housekeeper puts the other cup down beside Gisèle, who is completely absorbed by her recent strange experience. The other two look at her enquiringly.
THE COURTYARD=>The two men emerge from the house and stand at the head of the steps. The carriage drives up the last few yards. The horse walks as if sunk in its own thoughts; then it stops abruptly. Joseph takes the lantern, which has been left on the steps, and slowly approaches the carriage. After a few paces he stops. Now he can see the whole carriage clearly and the coachman is alone.
THE DRAWING-ROOM=>Enter Nikolas. He shuts the door very quietly behind him as if afraid that by making the slightest noise he will bring about still worse misfortunes. He tiptoes to the piano and extinguishes the two lights on it. As he is doing this, he cocks an ear to listen for Gisèle's breathing; then he resumes his reading of the diary, a page of which is shown. As he reads we hear in the distance the sound of horses' hooves on the paving stones ... also the sound of the carriage being put away. Then silence reigns again around the old house. Nikolas listens out into the silence. Is he awake, or are all these fearful happenings merely a long, horrible nightmare? The heart of the old clock is still beating. After a moment a deep sigh is heard from a corner of the room. Nikolas looks in that direction. A cello is standing there. One of the strings has slipped, and as he looks at it another string breaks. Then silence again wraps its mantle round the room.
THE SICK-ROOM=>The doctor hurries in and goes straight to the bed. The nurse's face takes on an expression of fear. She is giving the patient camphor. Léone is paler than before. Her features are hard and sharp, her lips blue. It is painful to see her and hear her breathing. Beside herself, the nurse turns to the doctor and says:
THE DRAWING-ROOM=>Joseph goes to the door of the room where Gisèle is. His face shows surprise when he discovers Gisèle on the sofa; she is sitting motionless, with her legs drawn up under her and her head leaning back against the wall, staring fixedly at him with wide-open, startled eyes. As if talking to herself, she says:
THE SICK-ROOM=>By the time we return there, all the preparations for the blood transfusion are completed.
THE DRAWING-ROOM=>Joseph returns from the room where Gisèle is. He has evidently succeeded in calming her. He goes and sits in the chair where Nikolas sat. He rests his head in his hand. He sees the open diary and begins reading it.
THE SICK-ROOM=>The blood transfusion is now in progress. The only words are curt orders like: 'Now! - Quickly! - That's enough! - Give it to me! - Sit still!' etc.
THE DRAWING-ROOM=>Joseph is reading the diary, which arouses his interest more and more. It is as if he finds a connection between what he reads and the fearful events that have taken place around him. An extract from the diary is shown.
THE SICK-ROOM=>The blood transfusion continues. Marc has positioned himself outside the circle of light from the lamp, so that he can see Nikolas in bright light, while he himself sits in the dark. Nikolas watches Léone's face anxiously and closely during her struggle with death. Life slowly seems to return to her, and her breathing becomes more peaceful. She opens her eyes and looks at the people round her, but she is much too enfeebled to speak, and closes her eyes again. Marc keeps a close watch on Nikolas, who grows paler and paler. His eyes swivel slowly from Nikolas to the patient and back to Nikolas again.
THE DRAWING-ROOM=>Another fragment of the diary is shown [having to do with vampires].
NIKOLAS=>The wound is bleeding!
THE DRAWING-ROOM=>Here the old manservant is sitting, completely absorbed in the diary. Suddenly he raises his head, as if he has heard a sound. He starts to his feet, with an overwhelming sense of dread and foreboding. He is filled with a presentiment of some horror or other. He goes to the window and sees on the
LÉONE'S ROOM=>The nurse stands leaning over Léone. It is evident that the patient's strength is ebbing away. The nurse and the manservant are aware that everything will soon be over. Léone realizes it herself. She moans, sobs and wails. The nurse consoles her as best she can. As for the manservant, he appears to be maturing in his mind some great project or other. Léone, who has great difficulty in getting the words out, says:
THE WOOD=>Nikolas is running in the direction of the factory.
THE CASTLE=>The manservant comes pushing a wheelbarrow and stops in front of a tool-shed, from which by the light of a lantern he takes a pick-axe and a shovel; he puts these in the wheelbarrow. He is just about to go when he realizes that he has forgotten something. He goes back into the shed and takes a long crowbar and a wooden mallet. These objects likewise he puts in the wheelbarrow, fastens the lantern on the handle of the wheelbarrow, and sets off.
A FIELD=>Nikolas enters at a run and suddenly falls headlong.
OUTSIDE THE CHURCHYARD=>The manservant pushes his wheelbarrow along the wall. He makes for the churchyard gate.
A FIELD=>Nikolas is lying on the spot where he fell. Suddenly his body divides in two. One part remains lying unconscious, while the other gets up with evident difficulty. He slowly comes to and looks round in amazement. Not far off he notices an object on the ground. It is Gisèle's ring - the ring with the cross which her father gave her. He picks it up and examines it carefully, as if Gisèle has sent him a message by means of the
THE BLIND WOMAN'S HOUSE=>He goes in at the door, which opens easily, and finds himself in a dark yard at the back of the house. He gropes his way forward in the shadow of the house, until he finds a door without a handle. He opens this in turn. He now finds himself in the old laundry room, which he recognizes from his previous visit. From here he knows the way into the house and goes straight to the door at the other end of the laundry room. He enters the empty room adjoining it. Here everything is as he last saw it. His own footsteps are clearly visible in the dust on the floor; nobody has been here. He listens. Not a sound in the house. He looks for the door into the room where the coffin stood before. It is locked. So something has happened since his last visit. He tries hard to open the door, but in vain.
THE FIELD=>Nikolas is lying on the ground, as when we last saw him. He begins to return to consciousness. The dream he has just had enters his semi- consciousness. He opens his eyes a fraction, as if drowned in sleep, and sees the procession from his dream - at first making straight for him, but presently turning away. He turns to watch it, and discovers that he is lying on the ground outside the churchyard. The funeral procession is making for the churchyard.
LÉONE'S ROOM=>The dying Léone wakes up with a start. Her great eyes stare up at the ceiling, and her face expresses unspeakable and speechless astonishment. The nurse bends over her and asks:
THE CHURCHYARD=>Nikolas and the manservant have succeeded in getting the lid off the coffin. They look with horror at the sight that meets their eyes. In the coffin is lying the old blind woman. Her face is completely untouched, as if she is still alive. She is preternaturally pale and sallow. Neither her breathing nor her heartbeat can be heard. Nikolas looks at her by the light of the lantern.
LÉONE'S ROOM=>Léone looks like somebody waiting and listening. The nurse again bends over her and asks:
THE CHURCHYARD=>The manservant gives the crowbar to Nikolas and himself takes the mallet. Nikolas lifts the crowbar and directs the point at the blind woman's heart. He raises and lowers the crowbar several times in order to take careful aim. Then he lifts it and, turning his face away, plunges it with all his strength into her heart. Nikolas signals to the manservant, who comes up and hammers the crowbar further and further in with the mallet. They both look very serious. Blow after blow echoes around. As soon as the crowbar is hammered home the two men break off from their work and take a step back. They stare down at the grave in consternation. The blind woman's body has disappeared, and in the place where she lay there is now only a bare white skeleton.
LÉONE'S ROOM=>Léone as before. The tension and suffering seem to have gone from her face. Staring straight ahead, she whispers as if in a trance:
THE CHURCHYARD=>The gravestone is being pushed back into place. In this shot we see only the coffin, the gravestone and the manservant's hands at work.
THE BLIND WOMAN'S HOUSE=>There is a fire in the grate. Marc is lighting another cigar. The man with the wooden leg brings him a cup of coffee. Marc brushes some ash from his trousers and takes a gulp of coffee. Suddenly he raises his head and looks towards the window. The man with the wooden leg observes his movements and goes up to him. They both look at the window, where a face now comes into view. It is Bernard, the man who was murdered at the castle earlier in the night under such mysterious circumstances. The face moves and looks in anxiously, while Bernard's hands protect his eyes against the moonlight. The two men in the room are seized with terror. Marc bends forward, and hastily puts out the light, at the same time signaling to the man with the wooden leg to put out the fire in the grate. The latter pours water over the fire, which
THE CHURCHYARD=>The manservant has tidied up the grave and is now putting back the tombstone, on which can be read the following curious inscription: Here lies Marguerite Chopin, born 4 February 1809, died 13 June 1867. Then a catalogue of her virtues.
THE BLIND WOMAN'S HOUSE=>We see Nikolas's hand inserting the key in the door guarding Gisèle. He finds it behind the piece of furniture where it is hidden, and inserts it in the lock. The shot is taken in such a way that the spectator is uncertain whether the hand is real or not.
ROLLING COUNTRYSIDE=>Marc is running at full speed like a man pursued. He keeps turning round, as if expecting to see his pursuer at every moment.
THE BLIND WOMAN'S HOUSE=>Gisèle is lying on her bed, leaning against the wall, with her legs drawn up under her. Her hands are tied behind her back. Nikolas's hands appear on the screen attempting to loosen her bonds. When the knot refuses to yield, he uses his teeth. Both the hands and Nikolas's profile are taken as in the previous shot, i.e., in such a way that the spectator is uncertain whether they are real or not.
ROLLING COUNTRYSIDE=>Marc is running away like a man who has lost his reason. Where he is running there is no road or path.
LÉONE'S ROOM=>Léone is at the point of death. She is quite calm. An angelic beauty suffuses her face. She smiles. Then she slowly closes her eyes. She gives a deep sigh, like a child just before it falls asleep. She has expired. A hand lays a little gold crucifix on her closed lips.
[ROLLING COUNTRYSIDE]=>Marc has run right across the fields, still pursued by his invisible pursuer. Suddenly he is enveloped in mist. It is like steam rising from the earth. The mist gives everything a ghostly appearance. Marc is seized with terror. He does not know where he is. He can neither see nor hear. He is so confused and agitated that he does not know which way to take. He runs first in one direction, then in another, tries to retrace his steps, but is unable to see them because of the mist. He runs in a more and more random manner. He stops for a moment. Then he sees, a short distance away, a light, which seems to come from a lantern, and the faint outlines of a gray shadow, which might be the shadow of a man. He calls, but instead of answering the shadow merely moves away from him. He runs in pursuit of it; but in spite of all his exertions the distance between them remains the same. Speechless with terror, he pursues his frenzied course with his hands spread out in front of him, as if trying to scatter the mist.
THE RIVER=>Cross-cutting with the scenes described above recording Marc's death are scenes showing Nikolas and Gisèle on their way down to the river. When they reach the bank, they find it veiled in a white mist so thick as almost to blot out the opposite bank. A boat is lying right at their feet. They jump down in it, and Nikolas seizes the oars and starts rowing. When he has taken a few pulls out into the river, the mist grows thicker; but he continues to row. Now they cannot even see the bank they have just left. Gisèle stares anxiously around, and Nikolas rests on the oars to get his bearings. But they see that they are completely enveloped in mist. They are somewhat uneasy and confused. Nikolas puts his hands up to his mouth as a megaphone and calls:
