LIVING ROOM--=>Old Struble enters, looking about him, rubbing his hands. Man comes in with bundle on his shoulder. Man throws bundle down in middle of floor and goes out. Another man, passing him with big wooden box on shoulder, sets it down and also goes out. As he does so, Suzette enters, cloaked and dressed as though having been on a journey. She has her arms about her mother. Suzette, with very daughterly affectionate manner, leads her mother tenderly out of the picture toward the wooden settle in front of the fireplace.
THE SETTEE--=>Suzette and mother enter the picture. Suzette places the mother on the settle, takes her own cloak and makes a pillow of it. Is asking her mother if she is feeling very ill, when old Struble comes into the picture. The mother is speaking to Suzette. Struble's face shows that he does not understand. He turns to the girl and asks her a question. Suzette nods, says:
STREET--=>Old Struble going away from cottage up street, meets Richard Wayne coming down street towards cottage. Wayne salutes his guardian, who indicates the cottage, and says:
WINDOW--LIVING ROOM--=>Suzette turns away from window which she has closed and goes toward her mother.
SETTLE--LIVING ROOM--=>Suzette and her mother--the mother reviving. She clutches Suzette feverishly and says: "What did I say? Did any one hear me?" Suzette putting her arm about her, reassures her, says:
STRUBLE'S "OFFICE"--=>Struble, counting money, looks up, hearing someone, hastily conceals the money. Wayne comes in, asks his guardian for money. Struble does not want to give it to him, says:
NEAR FIREPLACE--LIVING ROOM--=>Nokomis has built fire and is giving the mother hot steaming drink. The mother, leaning against Suzette is sipping it. Suzette smiles across her mother at Nokomis. Nokomis looks as affectionately as an Indian can at Suzette.
ANOTHER PART OF WOODS--=>Richard Wayne, in hunting costume, sees rabbit, shoots gun.
WOODS--=>Wayne looks down at Suzette, who is on her feet and turns on him passionately. Tells him he's cruel to kill a poor little thing like a rabbit. He is paying attention to the girl herself, watching her closely, admiringly, but not paying any particular attention to what she says. Suzette is not really angry, but is coquettishly pretending anger. She stamps her foot at him, pointing down to the dead rabbit. Wayne wakes up with a start to what Suzette says, stoops, reaches out of picture, the girl staring at him. He comes back, straightens himself up, rabbit in his hand. Drops it in his game bag. As he does this, Suzette covers her face with her hands. Wayne takes her wrists gently in his hands, uncovers her face, tells her he did not want to hurt her so. Says:
PATH TO NOKOMIS' HUT--=>Wayne and Suzette coming along, talking together. Wayne's attitude to the girl is very lover-like as he bends over her and holds the branches away so they won't strike her.
WINDOW--LIVING ROOM--=>Suzette's mother looking out of window. Suddenly smiles, beckons with her hand.
LIVING ROOM--=>Suzette's mother leaning back in big armchair, holding out cookie. Little Anne comes running into picture, takes cookie, eats it, leaning against arm of chair. Suzette's mother pats the child's head, showing simply her fondness for children and that she feels lonely. Looks lovingly down at the child.
LIVING ROOM--=>Little Anne takes another cookie, says good-by to Suzette's mother and runs away out of picture. The mother sinks back in the chair wearily, but smiling.
GATE--OLD STRUBLE'S GROUNDS--=>Struble, coming down toward gate, sees lovers, stops, steps behind shrubbery, looks out.
THE GATE--=>Wayne waves to Suzette--she goes through gate.
LIVING ROOM--=>Anne Hardin, the child to whom Suzette's mother gave cookie, lying on settle, head propped up with pillows, tossing, crying, looks very ill, mother bending over the child, wringing her hands. The middle-aged woman enters, asks questions. The mother begins to cry. The woman pats her shoulder, says:
WINDOW--=>Old Struble comes along little side path. Hurries toward window.
LIVING ROOM--=>Mother of Suzette sitting at table with small wooden box, with brass hinges and clasp, open before her. She takes jewels, string of pearls, several necklaces,
LIVING ROOM=>Suzette and her mother unconscious of the old man watching them. Suzette asks her mother what these things mean. Her mother glances at the jewels, covers them with her hands, looks up at her daughter and says:
LIVING ROOM=>The mother turns, frightened, begins to push the jewels back in the box, her hands trembling. Suzette helps her, asks her what is wrong. The mother tries to point toward window, but her hand shakes, and the seizure begins. Suzette looks at window.
LIVING ROOM=>Suzette thinking her mother has had an hallucination, turns to tell her so--finds her mother ill--her head thrown back--her eyes closed--her body rigid--her feet and hands twisting. She is muttering. Suzette, frightened, reaches for pitcher on table--pours water in glass-- begins to sprinkle on mother's face. As she does so, Struble comes into picture. Suzette looks up at him frightened--puts her hand over her mother's mouth. Then concludes that this is useless. Struble looks shocked. As he looks at the mother, says: "Devil's Latin!" Suzette shakes her head, angry--says scornfully:
BEDROOM--=>Struble and Suzette come into the picture, supporting the mother--get her on the bed. She comes out of the seizure--opens her eyes. Her daughter gives her a drink of water--speaks to her soothingly. Struble keeps himself in the background. The mother turns her head, closes her eyes, tries to sleep. Struble beckons to the girl. She follows him out of the room.
LIVING ROOM=>Struble enters--Suzette following him--comes up to him anxiously. He begins to tell her that there's danger of her mother being accused of witchcraft. Suzette, terribly frightened, says:
BEDROOM--SUZETTE'S COTTAGE--=>Suzette kneeling beside her mother's bed--her face hidden. The mother puts her hand on her head--feebly trying to comfort her.
"OFFICE"--STRUBLE HOUSE=>Old Struble talking to Richard Wayne, who is dressed ready to ride away. Struble gives him money and advice, patting his arm and talking very fast. Richard takes the money--looks down at his guardian a moment thoughtfully--then smiles--extends his hand, and says:
LIVING ROOM--HARDIN COTTAGE=>The mother and doctor cautioning the father to be still lest he disturb the child. The father turns from them angry and goes out of the room hastily. The mother and doctor turn and try to soothe the fretful child.
WINDOW--SUZETTE'S COTTAGE--=>Suzette hears noise--looks out of window.
BEYOND HARDIN COTTAGE)=>Anne Hardin's father coming along with a group of people following him. He looks threatening and angry --waves his hands--talking vehemently about witchcraft. The others shuddering--frightened.
WINDOW--SUZETTE'S COTTAGE--=>Suzette turns from window--goes toward door.
SUZETTE'S COTTAGE--STREET--BEYOND=>The group, led by the anxious father, going toward Suzette's cottage.
BEDROOM--SUZETTE'S COTTAGE--=>Suzette, having rushed in and closed the door behind her, is leaning against it--listening, and watching with anxiety, her sleeping mother.
LIVING ROOM--NEAR FIREPLACE--=>Suzette indicates chairs for the minister and Makepeace, but the minister declines to sit, calls her to him--begins to ask her about herself and her mother. Suzette answers him--finally says, proudly:
OUTSIDE BEDROOM DOOR--=>Suzette and the men. Suzette gets her hand away from Makepeace--opens door and indicates they should look. They bend forward, looking eagerly.
BEDROOM--=>Suzette's mother asleep.
DOORWAY BEDROOM=>Suzette closes the door--confronts both of the men determinedly--tells them they shall not disturb her mother. The minister and Makepeace confer together and agree to go for the night and not to disturb her. Suzette is very grateful. The minister goes, saying:
DOORWAY--SUZETTE'S COTTAGE--=>Suzette, standing in the doorway. Nokomis comes up to her. They go in together.
LIVING ROOM--SUZETTE'S COTTAGE=>Nokomis and Suzette enter. Nokomis indicates: "Did you hear the children?" Suzette nods. Nokomis implores her to get her mother away--says:
BEDROOM=>Suzette's mother lying back on pillows, looking ill and old. Looks up as Nokomis enters--takes medicine the old squaw gives her--pats Suzette's hand--tells her she'll soon be better. Suzette bursts into tears and hurries from the room. Nokomis looks after her. The mother begins to talk to Nokomis.
LIVING ROOM--=>Suzette enters--throws herself full length on the settle begins to weep.
LIVING ROOM=>Suzette raises her head--calls "Come!"--gets to her feet. As she stands there, wiping her eyes, old Struble comes into the picture and up to her, Suzette startled, goes to him--asks if anything is wrong. He asks her how her mother is this morning, indicating the bedroom. Suzette begs him to tell her what to do for her mother. Old Makepeace shakes his head-- indicates he doesn't know--it's a pretty serious matter. She'll undoubtedly be named as a witch. The girl, frantic, indicates what can she do--her mother is too ill to move. Old Struble, who has been gloating over her, adjusts his ruffles, and says, leaning over her, taking her by the wrists:
LIVING ROOM--SUZETTE'S COTTAGE=>Suzette's mother sitting in chair with pillow at her head--looks ill, Nokomis, looking after her, tells her they must be coming from church now. Says to mother:
EXTERIOR, SUZETTE'S COTTAGE=>Suzette, accompanied by Struble and several of the company, go toward door. Suzette breaks from the others and goes in as though to rush to her mother.
LIVING ROOM--=>Old Struble and the other people entering the room. Nokomis comes toward them, pointing toward the girl and her mother--tells them that the woman is dead. Old Struble puts his hand on the casket containing the jewels which is on the table--orders Nokomis to leave the house--Nokomis goes; the people who have followed old Struble in, stand back awed. As Struble goes toward the girl .
"OFFICE"--STRUBLE'S HOUSE=>Old Struble at desk. Has just concluded inventory of his wife's jewels. The box is open beside him. It amounts to a comfortable sum in pounds.
THE WOODS--FOOTPATH=>Suzette is met by a rabble of children. They have sticks and stones in their hands, an empty hornet's nest on a pole, a dead cat at the end of a stick, a pan on which one of them is beating with a stick, and a general collection of odds and ends, such as would appeal to children's minds as either capable of inflicting an injury or making a noise. They stop Suzette and ask her the way to the witch's hut. Suzette, indignant, says:
"OFFICE" STRUBLE'S HOUSE=>Wayne enters, hand outstretched. Old Struble hastily shuts the jewel box and thrusts the memorandum under a pile of papers, turns to greet his ward, not particularly overjoyed. Tries to pretend a little warmth, but isn't very good at pretending, and Wayne can see that he is not over-welcome.
WOODS--=>Children angry, shaking their fists in the direction of Suzette.
"OFFICE"--STRUBLE'S HOUSE=>Old Struble and Wayne talking earnestly. Wayne indicates that he is going to settle down and work hard at his profession. Old Struble looks at him approvingly. Wayne, after a quick glance at the guardian, says:
"OFFICE" STRUBLE'S HOUSE--=>Struble, watching Wayne, cynically notes how hard he is taking the news. Richard has been practically stunned, not only from the fact that his guardian has married at all at his age, but also that it should be this girl. He looks at his guardian incredulously, says: "You can't mean you married her?" Old Struble leans back in his chair smiling at him sardonically, tosses his head back, indicates: "I mean it--I'm not the old fossil you seem to think me, young sir." Richard still staring at him incredulously, when Suzette enters the picture. Coming up to her husband, she puts her arm on the back of his chair, sees Richard and starts. Richard, too, starts. Old Struble puts his claw-like hand on Suzette's arm, indicates her with a leer to Wayne, and says: "This is my wife." Suzette holds out her hand.
"OFFICE" STRUBLE'S HOUSE--=>Suzette and Richard then look at each other. He bows over her hand without touching it. The misery in her face as she realizes that he condemns her for what she had done, and that he will never understand why she married Struble. Anger and contempt on Richard's face. He thinks she has married the old man for his money.
"OFFICE" STRUBLE'S HOUSE--=>Old Struble grinning evilly as he watches the young people.
"OFFICE" STRUBLE'S HOUSE--=>Wayne bows, excuses himself, saying he must go and remove the dust of travel, goes from room. Suzette stands looking after him--wondering why he treats her so contemptuously--then thinks he may suspect her of having stepped between him and the fortune he might have gotten from old Struble. Suzette starts--turns to Struble, who has been watching her jealously, and says:
LIVING ROOM--STRUBLE'S HOUSE=>The table is set at one end. Richard Wayne comes into the picture--stops at fireplace near foreground-- takes high-back chair which practically conceals him from anyone entering the room unless they know he was there. He swings chair around so that the back is toward room and he faces the fire-- sinks out of sight in the chair, leaning his head on his hand.
LIVING ROOM--STRUBLE'S HOUSE=>Suzette comes into the room with pates on s tray-- walks down to table past Richard, without seeing him.
THE TABLE--LIVING ROOM--STRUBLE HOUSE--=>Suzette comes close to table--puts down plate--looks it over--sees that it's all right--stands thinking a moment--puts hand to her neck--takes out talisman --looks at it--remembers what the old Indian woman said to her-- holds it in her hand and says:
LIVING ROOM--AT FIREPLACE-=>Richard in chair at fireplace, hears this--turns around--smiles cynically--thinks she has done this for effect--starts to rise.
AT TABLE--LIVING ROOM--=>Suzette at table. She has slipped the talisman under the neck of her gown again, and taking a step forward from the table, meets Richard who comes into the picture, smiling. Suzette at first looks embarrassed --then greets him warmly--indicates "Since we'll have to see a great deal of each other, why can't we be friends?" Richard, quite sure she is playing a game, determines to play it too--greets her warmly and tells her that he desires it more than anything else. They turn toward table.
AT TABLE--LIVING ROOM--=>Old Struble enters picture--looks at them, grudgingly orders them to sit down. Richard and he sit down. Suzette at first waiting on them. Richard makes a fuss over Suzette waiting on him--tries to touch her hand. The old man sees this--angry, Suzette puzzled and annoyed. Then when Suzette has taken things from the sideboard to table and starts to sit down, Richard places chair for her--makes a great deal of this small courtesy--puts his hand on her shoulder--keeps it there until the old man sees it and is angry. Suzette alarmed and puzzled. Then, as Richard goes back to his place, indifferent to her resentment and old Struble's black looks, thinking he has gauged her character and she's worth nothing--angry at his guardian for being such an old fool to marry her; with Struble furious at both of them; with Suzette leaning back in her chair, looking at Richard in amazement .
FOOTPATH--WOODS--=>Suzette turns on Wayne indignant--asks him why he follows her about. Wayne laughs, tries to kiss her hand. Suzette pulls it away--says:
FOOTPATH--=>Suzette's arm--black and blue bruises and a great angry red welt across it.
FOOTPATH--WOODS--=>Richard and Suzette. Richard lifts his face full of astonishment, anger, and resentment, says: "Did he do that?" The girl tries to pull her hand away--refuses to answer him. Richard, ashamed of himself, bows his head over Suzette's hand without kissing it--drops it --looks at the girl, and says:
DOORWAY--EXTERIOR--NOKOMIS' HUT--=>The child, half frightened, turns to go--then turns back--fascinated--looks in again.
FOOTPATH--WOODS=>Suzette finishing telling Richard why she married Struble. Richard takes her hand in his--bends over it--and presses it to his lips, says:
"OFFICE" STRUBLE'S HOUSE=>Old Struble at desk, looking at lifted lid of jewel box, containing his wife's jewels. On lid of box appears VISION of Suzette's face turned toward Richard as they looked when they first caught sight of each other. Old Struble slams the lid and scowls into space, jealous. Richard Wayne enters, dressed for traveling--tells him he is going. Struble pretends to be surprised and sorry--urges him not to go. Richard is firm--indicating that he must go-- goes out of the room--followed by Struble, who is secretly delighted.
LIVING ROOM--SUZETTE'S OLD COTTAGE=>The child who was with Suzette enters. Her mother is giving the three other children their supper--mush and milk--in little bowls. As she gives the children the mush and milk, they walk out of the picture toward fireplace. The oldest child is given her bowl, too, with a little scolding for being so late. She walks out of the picture to the fireplace.
FIREPLACE--LIVING ROOM--=>The three small children sitting on the long seat inside fireplace, their little bowl of mush and milk in their laps, eating. The oldest child comes into the picture--takes little stool in front of fire and sits down with her back partly turned to camera, facing her sisters and brothers. They ask her where she's been. She glances over her shoulder to see that none of the grown-ups are about, listening, leans forward and points mysteriously at the fireback. VISION rises there of the interior of Nokomis' hut in which Nokomis goes through the same motions that she did when she was putting the meat and vegetables into the stew--Suzette standing beside her, also; but as the child tells it, Nokomis is a terrible, impossible old witch with a pointed cap and a long hooked nose and claw fingers. Likewise what she drops into the stew is not meat and vegetables but toads, little snakes or long worms--dead birds with all their feathers on, and a kitten or two. Suzette is also a witch, but not so ugly, and a talisman she fingers, instead of being composed of beads is a little skull--the eyes gleaming like pinpoints of fire . Instead of a black cat, a little devil with horns and a tail, is watching the two. VISION FADES OUT. The children are horror-stricken--unable to eat, but the oldest one keeps on talking and points again to the fireplace. Another VISION rises of Nokomis going up the chimney astride of a
LIVING ROOM--=>The mother and a neighbor woman rush in and to the children. The mother declares that the child has been bewitched. The other children clutch her skirts as she stops to comfort her. The child who has been the cause of all this is frightened as the rest, but stubbornly answers the neighbor woman, insisting that she did see it and that it was just as she said.
LIVING ROOM--STRUBLE HOUSE=>Suzette comes in, sinks down into easy-chair, covering her face with her hands. Old Struble enters picture and commences to rail at her, accuses her of having allowed Wayne to make love to her, strikes her with his stick. Suzette, indignant, thrusts him back, denounces him for his cruelty to her. She is hysterical and as she points to him with one hand and touches her talisman with her other hand, she says:
LIVING ROOM--STRUBLE HOUSE=>Suzette leaning against table, holding talisman in her hand, thinking as she looks at it. The minister and Struble come into the picture. Suzette greets minister, motioning to chair. The minister sits and addresses Suzette almost as though she were a prisoner at the bar. Suzette astonished--doesn't understand. He commences to accuse her--Suzette understands now, says firmly:
STRUBLE'S BEDROOM=>Struble ill, lying on bed, his wicked mean little eyes following Suzette about, hatred of her showing in every glance. He strikes her hand away when she tries to smooth the pillow, refuses to take cup from her, won't take it until the mother of the little child acting as nurse, comes--takes it, tastes it herself and gives it to him. At the sign from the nurse, Suzette, much distressed, goes from the picture. The moment she goes, the old man sits up in bed, and pointing after her, says:
PATH IN WOODS--NEAR HUT--=>Suzette, coming along the path, worried, holding talisman in her hand, going toward Nokomis' hut.
STRUBLE'S BEDROOM--=>Struble sitting up in his bed, gesticulating feebly. The minister and several of the elders grouped about his bed, listening as he denounces his wife.
STRUBLE'S BEDROOM=>The little child, who said Nokomis and Suzette were witches, led in. The minister begins to question her. Struble in bed--leans forward excitedly and begins to ask questions. The child looks from one to the other, half frightened, nods her head. Struble, greatly excited, turns to the minister and elders and indicates: "You see, it's true!" Gets so excited that he falls back, clutches his throat, choking. The nurse comes into the picture, orders the others to leave the room. They start to go.
DEEP IN THE WOODS--=>Suzette in boy's clothes, traveling along in the moonlight, half afraid, jumping at every sound, but hurrying on. Finally hears something--stops still-- frightened--looking this way and that--finally looks up.
DEEP IN THE WOODS--=>Suzette, looking up at him, shakes her fist, indicating, "Nasty old thing, you frightened me!" Goes along, hurrying--looking from side to side.
FIREPLACE--TAVERN--=>Suzette, curled up on settle, asleep, head on arm. Wayne comes into picture, taps her on shoulder. As he does so, looks down at her, gives an exclamation, bends toward her.
SETTLE--FIREPLACE--=>The two faces--Wayne's bending over Suzette, indicating: "My God, what does this mean?" Suzette's eyes slowly opening as she smiles up into his face, forgetting for a moment her errand and her costume.
SETTLE--FIREPLACE--=>Suzette jumps to her feet, conscious of the fact that someone may be watching her, puts her finger to her lips, indicates to Wayne: "I must see you alone." Wayne indicates that he understands and looks about him. Tells her it's all right--to tell him now. Suzette begins to talk. Tells him her news--says:
OLD STRUBLE'S BEDROOM--=>Old Struble dead. The minister and elders standing about bed. The nurse has put sheet over Struble's
EDGE OF WOODS--=>Wayne and Suzette. Wayne urges Suzette to let him send escort with her. Suzette shakes her head--says:
MEETING HOUSE--=>Suzette, held up by two men, opens her eyes as the judge rises and pronounces her sentence. He says at the conclusion:
SUZETTE)=>The coffin of Struble is borne past the wide-open doors, on the way to the cemetery.
MEETING HOUSE--=>Suzette sees the coffin--screams--puts her hand before her eyes, and starts to fall forward in a dead faint, but is caught and held by the two men.
MEETING HOUSE--=>Nokomis sees this--turns and hurries out of the picture.
WOODS=>Nokomis, hurrying along, meets a man who has been plowing, driving two horses ahead of him. Nokomis stops him--pleads with him, frantically, to loan her a horse--tells him about Suzette. He stops and speaks to her. She shakes her head--begs him for a horse. He indicates she can take it and welcome--he says:
CELL=>Suzette chained. The minister pleading with her to recant and confess. A man, accompanying minister with pen and paper: ready to write down confession. Suzette refuses to confess--shakes her head--says: "I am innocent--I've nothing to confess." The minister again entreats her to consider she is near her end and must tell the truth. Suzette shakes her head and persists in her refusal.
CELL--=>Suzette alone, her face turned toward window--the sunlight touching her hair and face. She is looking longingly out.
TABLE--ANOTHER PART OF TAVERN=>The Governor seated at table, talking with several of the officers. They have maps spread before them, and a man, dressed as a trapper or scout, gives them information. Wayne rushes in frantic with anxiety, begins to tell them, says:
THE WOODS--=>Wayne and several of his men, riding "hell for leather" through the woods.
FOOT OF HILL=>Nokomis coming along on horseback. The horse gives out. Nokomis gets down--tries to coax it along. The horse refuses to move. She turns and hurries up the hill.
GALLOWS HILL--=>Suzette tells them that she is no witch, affirming she is innocent. The crowd commences to hurl sticks and stones--some of the smaller ones strike her. One man seizes a big one. Nokomis flings herself in front of Suzette as he throws the stone.
GALLOWS HILL--=>The crowd. Nokomis worming her way toward gallows.
FOOT OF GALLOWS HILL--=>Wayne and his men, riding toward camera, shouting.
GALLOWS HILL--=>Nokomis on the ground--Suzette bending over her, weeping.
GALLOWS HILL--=>The crowd, armed with more stones, turns from Suzette as the shouting soldiers ride through them. Wayne, with his whip, men who are throwing strikes right and left at the stones.
GALLOWS HILL=>Suzette has risen and stretches out her hands, as Wayne, dismounted, waving a proclamation, walks into the picture, stands between her and the crowd, protectingly--turns to the crowd, angrily--waves the governor's proclamation.
GALLOWS HILL--=>The crowd surge forward, listening.
GALLOWS HILL--=>Wayne addressing the crowd--Suzette behind him, watching him. He says:
GALLOWS HILL--=>The crowd dispersing--following the minister--going toward meeting house.
GALLOWS HILL--=>Suzette bending over Nokomis, who is being supported by a man. One or two people who have lingered watching. Suzette stoops over Nokomis, who opens her eyes. Wayne comes into picture, stoops over and touches Suzette. She puts her hand against his shoulder and holds him off--then takes out talisman, holding it toward him, and says earnestly:
GALLOWS HILL--=>Suzette and Wayne. Wayne has his arm about Suzette and is pointing off, telling her of a new life for both of them--out of this narrow little town--as Suzette puts her hand in his and lifts her face, full of hope, indicating that once more she believes
